README.md, before:

# android_to_ubunto

This repository contains scripts and a GUI application to establish a connection between an Android device and an Ubuntu system using ADB (Android Debug Bridge).  
With this project, you can easily connect your Android device to your Ubuntu system, execute commands, and view your device's screen.

---

## Requirements

- `adb` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `scrcpy` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `zenity` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `uxplay` installed on your Ubuntu system (for iPad mirroring).
- `obs-studio` installed on your Ubuntu system (for OBS streaming).
- Python 3 (recommended: 3.8+)
- `pip` for Python 3
- PyQt5 Python package
- An Android device with USB debugging enabled.

---

## Installation

1. **Install system dependencies:**
   ```bash
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt install adb scrcpy zenity python3 python3-pip obs-studio
   # For iPad mirroring
   sudo snap install uxplay
   ```

2. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:hugoofilipe/android_to_ubunto.git
   cd android_to_ubunto
   ```

3. **Create an env file in the cloned directory:**
   ```bash
   touch .env
   ```
   Add your device password and OBS config path to `.env`:
   ```bash
   PWD=<your_password>
   OBSGLOBALINIPATH="/home/<username>/.config/obs-studio/global.ini"
   ```

4. **Install Python dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui
   pip3 install -r requirements.txt
   ```

---

## Building the Executable (Optional)

If you want a standalone executable for the GUI:

1. **Install PyInstaller:**
   ```bash
   pip3 install pyinstaller
   ```

2. **Build the executable:**
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui/src
   pyinstaller --onefile --windowed main.py --name android_to_ubunto
   ```
   The executable will be created in the `dist/` folder.

---

## Creating a Desktop Shortcut (Ubuntu App Menu Icon)

1. **(Optional) Add an icon:**  
   Place a PNG icon (e.g., `icon.png`) in `android_to_ubunto_gui/`.

2. **Create a desktop entry:**
   ```bash
   nano ~/.local/share/applications/android_to_ubunto.desktop
   ```
   Paste the following (update paths as needed):

   ```
   [Desktop Entry]
   Name=Android to Ubuntu
   Comment=Unlock and control your Android device from Ubuntu
   Exec=/home/hugoofilipe/drive/projects/tools_on_linux/repos/android_to_ubunto/android_to_ubunto_gui/src/dist/android_to_ubunto
   Icon=/home/hugoofilipe/drive/projects/tools_on_linux/repos/android_to_ubunto/android_to_ubunto_gui/icon.png
   Terminal=false
   Type=Application
   Categories=Utility;
   ```

3. **Make the desktop file executable:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x ~/.local/share/applications/android_to_ubunto.desktop
   ```

4. **Update the desktop database:**
   ```bash
   update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications
   ```

5. **Find your app:**  
   Search for "Android to Ubuntu" in your Ubuntu app menu.  
   You can right-click and "Add to Favorites" for quick access.

---

## Usage

### Script Mode

1. Connect your Android device to your Ubuntu system via USB.
2. Make sure USB debugging is enabled on your Android device.
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   ./adb_unlock.sh
   ```

### GUI Mode

1. Run the GUI:
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui/src
   python3 main.py
   ```
   Or, if you built the executable:
   ```bash
   ./dist/android_to_ubunto
   ```
2. Use the GUI window to:
   - **Start/Stop Unlock Script**: Connects to your Android device, unlocks it, and starts scrcpy mirroring.
   - **Wakeup Phone**: Wakes up and unlocks your Android device when it goes to sleep (only available after starting the unlock script).
   - **Turn On/Off iPad**: Starts or stops the `uxplay -avdec -vs ximagesink` process for iPad mirroring.
   - **OBS Stream**: Removes the OBS global configuration file and starts OBS Studio with a clean setup for streaming.

---

## Project Structure

```
android_to_ubunto/
├── .env
├── adb_unlock.sh
├── android_to_ubunto.sh
├── README.md
└── android_to_ubunto_gui/
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── icon.png
    ├── src/
    │   ├── main.py
    │   └── gui.py
    └── dist/
        └── android_to_ubunto
```

---

## Configuration

### .env File

The `.env` file should contain the following variables:

```bash
# Android device unlock password
PWD="your_device_password"

# Path to OBS Studio global configuration file
OBSGLOBALINIPATH="/home/username/.config/obs-studio/global.ini"

# Optional: Android device IP (if using wireless ADB) -> never tested
DEVICE_IP="192.168.1.100"
```

---

## Notes

- Make sure `adb_unlock.sh` and `android_to_ubunto.sh` are executable:  
  ```bash
  chmod +x adb_unlock.sh
  chmod +x android_to_ubunto_gui/android_to_ubunto.sh
  ```
- The `.env` file must be present and contain your device password as `PWD=<your_password>`.
- The GUI launches and terminates all processes as subprocesses.
- The "Wakeup Phone" button is only enabled after starting the unlock script and disabled when stopping it.
- The "OBS Stream" button removes the OBS global configuration file (specified in `OBSGLOBALINIPATH`) and starts OBS with a fresh setup.
- Make sure `uxplay` and `obs-studio` are installed and available in your PATH.

---

**Enjoy controlling your Android and iPad devices from Ubuntu with integrated OBS streaming support!**

Commit message:

Enhance GUI and scripts: add battery percentage display, printing features, and PIN entry automation

README.md, after:

# android_to_ubunto

This repository contains scripts and a GUI application to establish a connection between an Android device and an Ubuntu system using ADB (Android Debug Bridge).  
With this project, you can easily connect your Android device to your Ubuntu system, execute commands, and view your device's screen.

[Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zsuAja7IZ38zojrrzAdW6rQsmZRLsS68q2z7z5VndNY/edit?tab=t.0).

---

## Requirements

- `adb` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `scrcpy` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `zenity` installed on your Ubuntu system.
- `uxplay` installed on your Ubuntu system (for iPad mirroring).
- `obs-studio` installed on your Ubuntu system (for OBS streaming).
- Python 3 (recommended: 3.8+)
- `pip` for Python 3
- PyQt5 Python package
- An Android device with USB debugging enabled.

---

## Installation

1. **Install system dependencies:**
   ```bash
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt install adb scrcpy zenity python3 python3-pip obs-studio
   # For iPad mirroring
   sudo snap install uxplay
   ```

2. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:hugoofilipe/android_to_ubunto.git
   cd android_to_ubunto
   ```

3. **Create an env file in the cloned directory:**
   ```bash
   touch .env
   ```
   Add your device password and OBS config path to `.env`:
   ```bash
   PWD=<your_password>
   OBSGLOBALINIPATH="/home/<username>/.config/obs-studio/global.ini"
   ```

4. **Install Python dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui
   pip3 install -r requirements.txt
   ```

---

## Building the Executable (Optional)

If you want a standalone executable for the GUI:

1. **Install PyInstaller:**
   ```bash
   pip3 install pyinstaller
   ```

2. **Build the executable:**
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui/src
   pyinstaller --onefile --windowed main.py --name android_to_ubunto
   ```
   The executable will be created in the `dist/` folder.

---

## Creating a Desktop Shortcut (Ubuntu App Menu Icon)

1. **(Optional) Add an icon:**  
   Place a PNG icon (e.g., `icon.png`) in `android_to_ubunto_gui/`.

2. **Create a desktop entry:**
   ```bash
   nano ~/.local/share/applications/android_to_ubunto.desktop
   ```
   Paste the following (update paths as needed):

   ```
   [Desktop Entry]
   Name=Android to Ubuntu
   Comment=Unlock and control your Android device from Ubuntu
   Exec=/home/hugoofilipe/drive/projects/tools_on_linux/repos/android_to_ubunto/android_to_ubunto_gui/src/dist/android_to_ubunto
   Icon=/home/hugoofilipe/drive/projects/tools_on_linux/repos/android_to_ubunto/android_to_ubunto_gui/icon.png
   Terminal=false
   Type=Application
   Categories=Utility;
   ```

3. **Make the desktop file executable:**
   ```bash
   chmod +x ~/.local/share/applications/android_to_ubunto.desktop
   ```

4. **Update the desktop database:**
   ```bash
   update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications
   ```

5. **Find your app:**  
   Search for "Android to Ubuntu" in your Ubuntu app menu.  
   You can right-click and "Add to Favorites" for quick access.

---

## Usage

### Script Mode

1. Connect your Android device to your Ubuntu system via USB.
2. Make sure USB debugging is enabled on your Android device.
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   ./adb_unlock.sh
   ```

### GUI Mode

1. Run the GUI:
   ```bash
   cd android_to_ubunto_gui/src
   python3 main.py
   ```
   Or, if you built the executable:
   ```bash
   ./dist/android_to_ubunto
   ```
2. Use the GUI window to:
   - **Start/Stop Unlock Script**: Connects to your Android device, unlocks it, and starts scrcpy mirroring.
   - **Wakeup Phone**: Wakes up and unlocks your Android device when it goes to sleep (only available after starting the unlock script).
   - **Turn On/Off iPad**: Starts or stops the `uxplay -avdec -vs ximagesink` process for iPad mirroring.
   - **OBS Stream**: Removes the OBS global configuration file and starts OBS Studio with a clean setup for streaming.
   - **Battery Percentage**: Shows the current battery percentage of your Android device in the GUI.
   - **Printing (basic)**: Extracts and displays all visible text from the current Android screen in the GUI (enabled only after unlocking).
   - **Printing (deep)**: Scrolls through the screen multiple times, extracting and displaying all unique visible text found (enabled only after unlocking).
   - **Use PIN**: Finds the "use pin" button on the Android screen and taps it, then enters your PIN automatically (enabled only after unlocking).

   > **Note:** The "Printing (basic)", "Printing (deep)", and "Use PIN" buttons are only enabled after unlocking the device.

---

## Project Structure

```
android_to_ubunto/
├── .env
├── adb_unlock.sh
├── android_to_ubunto.sh
├── README.md
└── android_to_ubunto_gui/
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── icon.png
    ├── src/
    │   ├── main.py
    │   └── gui.py
    └── dist/
        └── android_to_ubunto
```

---

## Configuration

### .env File

The `.env` file should contain the following variables:

```bash
# Android device unlock password
PWD="your_device_password"

# Path to OBS Studio global configuration file
OBSGLOBALINIPATH="/home/username/.config/obs-studio/global.ini"

# Optional: Android device IP (if using wireless ADB) -> never tested
DEVICE_IP="192.168.1.100"
```

---

## Notes

- Make sure `adb_unlock.sh` and `android_to_ubunto.sh` are executable:  
  ```bash
  chmod +x adb_unlock.sh
  chmod +x android_to_ubunto_gui/android_to_ubunto.sh
  ```
- The `.env` file must be present and contain your device password as `PWD=<your_password>`.
- The GUI launches and terminates all processes as subprocesses.
- The "Wakeup Phone" button is only enabled after starting the unlock script and disabled when stopping it.
- The "OBS Stream" button removes the OBS global configuration file (specified in `OBSGLOBALINIPATH`) and starts OBS with a fresh setup.
- The "Printing (basic)", "Printing (deep)", and "Use PIN" buttons are only enabled after unlocking the device.
- Make sure `uxplay` and `obs-studio` are installed and available in your PATH.
- The GUI shows your Android device's battery percentage.

---

**Enjoy controlling your Android and iPad devices from Ubuntu with integrated OBS streaming and advanced automation!**
